An idiom is a common phrase which means something different from its literal meaning but can be understood because of their popular use.
Idioms are difficult for someone not good at speaking the language. Some idioms are only used by some groups of people or at certain times. The idiom "shape up or ship out", which is like saying "improve your behavior or leave if you don't", might be said by an employer or supervisor to an employee, but not to other people.
Idioms are not the same thing as slang. Idioms are made of normal words that have a special meaning known to almost everyone. Slang is usually special words, or special meanings of normal words that are known only to a particular group of people.
To learn a language a person needs to learn the words in that language, and how and when to use them. But people also need to learn idioms separately because certain words together or at certain times can have different meanings. In order to understand an idiom, one sometimes needs to know the culture from which the idiom comes.
To know the history of an idiom can be useful and interesting. For example, most native British English speakers know that "No room to swing a cat" means "there was not much space" and can use the idiom properly. However, few know this is because 200 years ago sailors were punished by being whipped with a "cat o' nine tails". A big space was cleared on the ship so that the person doing the whipping had room to "swing the cat".
An idiom is a phrase whose meaning cannot be understood from the dictionary definitions of each word taken separately. The linguist's term for the real meaning of an idiom is the subtext.
Definition.
Idioms are phrases or expressions that have a figurative meaning different from their literal interpretation. They are commonly used in everyday language to convey a specific idea, often with cultural or historical significance. Idioms are not meant to be taken literally, and their meaning can be understood only by familiarizing oneself with their usage and context.
 A way to wish someone good luck.
 To enjoy life, to live widely
 To die.
 Used to tell someone that they should leave if they don't improve their behavior or performance
Learn and often perfect the skills of a craft, job, etc.
Mentally unstable, especially as the result of poisoning.
 To cry about something but without actually caring.
 A useless journey or pursuit.
 An idea or promise without substance"
 There is not a lot of space.
 To pay a lot of money, more than is normal.
Be extremely expensive.
 To choose the wrong course of action.
 To tell a secret.
 It's raining heavily.
 To get into trouble.
To disregard caution.
 Frightened or cowardly
 Not doing a thing, because of fear.
 Leader.
 To think that something is wrong.
 To quit.
 To stop believing in something or someone.
 I am very hungry.
To be really happy.
Rarely
Not wanting anything to do with something or someone.
Avoid at any cost.
Be too late for a chance or opportunity.
Easy to do.
Something easy to accomplish.
Extremely difficult task.
An impossible or improbable dream, project, etc.
To go to bed
Dismiss or be dismissed from one's employment.
Everything
All the unnecessary luxuries, features, etc
To ignore.
Report a false emergency.
What someone prefers.
Some common idioms.
Less common idioms include:
Very safe and secure.
Idioms which have unclear meaning.
Articles by Oxfam and the BBC have said that many idioms in English are unclear, or ambiguous. Many are understood differently in different countries. Many of the examples are taken from face-to-face talk, but may also apply in written reports.
Examples.
Vocables are sounds that are not proper words, but mean something, and are often ambiguous. One is a long drawn-out sound "hmmmmmm".
One suggestion is that these idioms are used to smooth over difficult areas in social interaction. They cover passive-aggressive statements which might cause more conflict if openly expressed.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;