Infinity (formula_1) is a mathematical concept which is about things that never end. It is written in a single digit. Infinity means many different things, depending on when it is used. The word is from Latin origin, meaning "without end". Infinity goes on forever, so sometimes space, numbers, and other things are said to be 'infinite', because they never come to a stop. Space and others can have infinite volume, but sometimes, things like toruses can be confused with infinite volume because they never stop.
Infinity is usually not an actual number, but it is sometimes used as one. Infinity often says how "many" there is of something, instead of how "big" something is. For example, there are infinitely many whole numbers (called integers), but there are some integers which are infinitely big, like aleph null, because the cardinality of the list of natural numbers has to be an integer, because you cannot have 2.718281828... items on your shopping list, can you? That would be quite confusing! But different kinds of math have different kinds of infinity. So its meaning often changes.
There are two kinds of infinity: potential infinity and actual infinity. Potential infinity is a process that never stops. For example, adding 10 to a number. No matter how many times 10 is added, 10 more can still be added. Actual infinity, on the other hand, refers to objects that are accepted as infinite entities (such as transfinite numbers).
Infinity in Mathematics.
Mathematicians have different sizes of infinity and three different kinds of infinity.
Counting infinity.
The number of things, beginning with 0, 1, 2, 3, ..., to include infinite cardinal numbers. There are many different cardinal numbers. Infinity can be defined in one of two ways: Infinity is a number so big that a part of it can be of the same size; Infinity is larger than all of the natural numbers. There is a smallest infinite number, "countable infinity". It is the counting number for all of the whole numbers. It is also the counting number of the rational numbers. The mathematical notation is the Hebrew letter aleph with a subscript zero; formula_2. It is spoken "aleph null".
It was a surprise to learn that there are larger infinite numbers. The number of real numbers, that is, all numbers with decimals, is larger than the number of rational numbers, the number of fractions. This shows that there are real numbers which are not fractions. The smallest infinite number greater than formula_2 is formula_4 (aleph one). The number of mathematical functions is the next infinite cardinal number, formula_5.
And these numbers, called aleph numbers, go on without end.
Ordering infinity.
A different "type" of infinity are the ordinal numbers, beginning "first, second, third, ...". The order "first, second, third, ..." and so on to infinity is "different" from the order "ending" "..., third, second, first". The difference is important for mathematical induction. The simple "first, second, third, ... " has the mathematical name: the Greek letter omega with subscript zero: formula_6. (Or simply omega formula_7.) The infinite series ending "... third, second, first" is formula_8.
The real line and complex plane.
The third "type" of infinity has the symbol formula_1. This is treated as addition to the real numbers or the complex numbers. It is the result of division by zero, or to indicate that a series is increasing (or decreasing) without bound. The series 1, 2, 3, ... increases without upper bound. This is written: the limit is formula_10. In calculus, the integral over all real numbers is written: formula_11
The arithmetic of infinity.
Each kind of infinity has different rules.
Addition, multiplication, exponentiation.
formula_12 Addition with "alephs" is commutative.
formula_13 Multiplication with "alephs" is commutative.
formula_14
formula_15.
formula_16. Addition with "omegas" is not commutative.
formula_17. Multiplication with "omegas" is not commutative.
formula_18
formula_19
formula_20
Subtraction, division.
Division by infinity (for example, with omegas or alephs) is not meaningful. Subtraction with infinity is not meaningful.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;