Las Vegas is a city in the American state of Nevada. There were 641,903 people living in the city in 2020, and more than 2,000,000 people living in the metropolitan area. It is the largest city in Nevada. Las Vegas is also the county seat of Clark County.
Las Vegas is famous for its casinos and resort hotels. It is one of the world's most popular places for tourism.
Politics.
Las Vegas leans to the left. Three of the four congressional districts in Nevada include parts of Las Vegas, and all three congresspeople representing those districts are Democrats from Las Vegas.
History.
Native Americans were the first to reside in the area, specifically the Paiute tribe. It was first called "Las Vegas" (which means "The Meadows" in the Spanish language) by the Spanish. The city is known for its dry weather, as is the rest of southern Nevada. It is surrounded by desert. 
The US Army built Fort Baker there in 1864. Las Vegas has natural springs, where people used to stop for water when they were going to Los Angeles or other places in California.
In 1905, 110 acres owned by William A. Clark, on which he built a railroad to Southern California were auctioned and Las Vegas was founded as a railroad town. Las Vegas officially became a city in 1911.
The Hispanic population in Las Vegas is growing and has rapidly increased. Most Latino Las Vegas residents are of Mexican, Cuban and Salvadoran descent. Las Vegas also has a small Puerto Rican, Guatemalan, Spaniard, Peruvian, Colombian, Honduran, Nicaraguan and Argentine population. The most common European ancestries in Las Vegas are German, Irish, Italian, Polish, French, Scottish, Russian, Swedish, Norwegian, Dutch and Welsh. Filipino, Korean, Vietnamese, Japanese, Indian and Chinese are the most common Asian ancestries.
People.
There is a Mexican, Chinese, Greek, German, Korean, Japanese, Armenian, Arab, Italian, Jewish, African-American, Iranian, Croatian, Polish, Filipino, Indian, Ethiopian and Chilean community in Las Vegas.
Las Vegas has a growing Hispanic population. Many Hispanics in Las Vegas are of Mexican, Cuban and Salvadoran ancestry.
Most of the foreign-born population were born in Mexico, the Philippines and El Salvador.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
 "This about a  can be made longer. You can help Wikipedia by [ adding to it]".